Skip to content

![](/downloaded/images/cropped-home-back.jpg)

[![OTW Designs](/downloaded/images/cropped-fish-1.png)](/)

# [OTW Designs](/)

Radio controlled model submarines for the serious modeller

Menu

  * [Home](/)
  * [Blog](/blog/)
  * [Videos](/videos/)
  * [German Subs](/#GermanSubs)
  * [British Subs](/#BritishSubs)
  * [Other Navies](/#OtherNavies)
  * [Dive Systems](/#DiveSystems)
  * [About](/about-2/)
  * [Contact](/contact-us/)

Scroll down to content

Video footage of the Naken model above courtesy of Martin Pryor.

## The latest from OTW:

**OTW is proud to announce our new kit, the Artful (our name for the Astute
series British submarine) is available for order.**

[ More... ](/artful/)

![HMS Artful port side](/downloaded/images/Artful_Backyard-Beauty-1024x768.jpg)

![HMS Artful at sea](/downloaded/images/Artful_Beauty-shot-1024x744.jpg)

![HMS Artful, all Kit Parts](/downloaded/images/Artful_All-Kit-Parts-backyard-1024x768.jpg)

 Previous

 Next

##### Recent Posts

  * [HMS Artful: a customer-detailed build.](/uncategorized/hms-artful-a-customer-detailed-build/)
  * [Very happy customer buys 3 new Astute kits](/uncategorized/very-happy-customer-buys-3-new-astute-kits/)
  * [Astute ( Artful ) 1/72nd model](/uncategorized/astute-artful-1-72nd-model/)

**Please Note: If you do not recieve a reply to your enquiry within 72 hours
then we have not recieved your message.**

**  
**

Due to the present global economic situation, the availability and pricing of
raw materials and electronics from our suppliers has become volatile. Hence
the prices quoted on our site are now only a fair indication of cost.

For a definitive quotation, please email. We will alter prices on the site
when the markets have stabilised.

## Our Models

### German Submarines - WWII

[ ![Type7 - UBoat](/downloaded/images/new-type-7.jpg) ](/type7-uboat/) Type 7 UBoat 

The Volkswagen of submarines. If anyone has ever seen a photograph or movie
showing a World War 2 U-boat then the Type 7 is probably what they have seen.
Over 650 of these boats were built, a truly staggering number.

[  More ](/type7-uboat/)

[ ![Type23](/downloaded/images/view1.jpg) ](/type-23/) Type23

Weighing in at 258 metric tons submerged displacement and measuring 34.7
meters in length the type XXIII was a coastal submarine designed to operate in
the Med and North Sea. It was armed with just two torpedoes – and no reloading
was possible.

[  More ](/type-23/)

[ ![German type 2b Uboat built by Martin Pryor](/downloaded/images/IMG_0370-2048x1536.jpg) ](/type-iib-german-u-boat/) Type IIB German U-Boat

The type II U-boat was a series of small coastal U-boats that has its origin
in a Clandestine Dutch engineering design company set up by the Germans after
World War one.

[  More ](/type-iib-german-u-boat/)

### Midgets

[ ![Seehund](/downloaded/images/Seehund1.jpg) ](/seehund/) Seehund

The Type XXVII Seehund, German for Seal, is considered the most successful of
the miniature German submarines. Designed in 1944, it first saw active duty
that December, and some 285 were commissioned into the Kriegsmarine.

[  More ](/seehund/)

[ ![Hecht](/downloaded/images/Hecht-014-800.jpg) ](/hecht/) Hecht

The Hecht or Pike is the third of our German midgets produced in the latter
stages of WW2. Only three of these boats where built so they did not progress
much further than the prototype stage. They could carry a large mine in the
detachable front section or a single torpedo. The craft was propelled only
with electric motors.

[  More ](/hecht/)

[ ![Molch](/downloaded/images/yMolch-HQ.jpg) ](/molch/) Molch

The Molch (Salamander) was an electrically driven one man operated torpedo
carrier. They were employed off Anzio and later off the coast of Holland.
About 390 were built, but they were not very effective as they were too
complicated to operate and their crews lacked proper training and support.

[  More ](/molch/)

### British Submarines

[ ![R Class](/downloaded/images/MayHansenDam-19-1568x1050.jpg) ](/r-class/) R Class

The world’s first _Hunter Killer_ submarine, the ‘R Class’ built towards the
close of WWI.

[  More ](/r-class/)

[ ![S Class](/downloaded/images/DSC01009.jpg) ](/s-class/) S Class

In all 63 ‘S’ class submarines were made and we decided some years ago after
the introduction of our 1/32nd scale Type VII to build the contemporary ‘S’
class to complement our fleet of models.

[  More ](/s-class/)

[ ![O Class](/downloaded/images/OClass1.jpg) ](/o-class/) O Class

Designed by Vickers at Barrow, the “Oberon” was arguably the finest class of
conventional boats ever produced. Being almost silent at low speeds, they were
the ideal vessels for patrolling, and attacking other submarines and surface
targets. The class contained a total of 27 boats, which served under the flags
of five nations.

[  More ](/o-class/)

[ ![HMS Artful at sea](/downloaded/images/Artful_Beauty-shot-2048x1489.jpg) ](/artful) Artful

OTW’s representation of the HMS Astute class of submarines. Called the Artful,
for reasons we will go into…

[  More ](/artful)

### Midget

[ ![X51 Midget](/downloaded/images/X51Finished640.jpg) ](/x51-midget/) X51 Midget

The four X-51s were an unusual element in Britain’s post-WWII sub fleet.
Emphasis was placed on countering the perceived growing Soviet threat. They
incorporated a number of improvements on the XE-Craft of WWII. In July 1958
Stickleback was sold to Sweden and renamed Spiggen. It returned to the UK in
1977 where it is now on display at the Imperial War Museum at Duxford.

[  More ](/x51-midget/)

### British Nuclear & Diesel Electric

[ ![Valiant](/downloaded/images/DSC-0033.jpg) ](/valiant/) Valiant

The Valiant class was the first fully British Nuclcuar sumarine.

The Conqueror was part of the Vlaiant class that that sunk the Belgrano during
the falklands war.

[  More ](/valiant/)

[ ![Vanguard](/downloaded/images/finished5.jpg) ](/vanguard/) Vanguard

The Vanguard submarines were built by Vickers Shipbuilding and Engineering
Limited. They are the largest submarines manufactured in the UK, displacing
15,900t submerged, twice the displacement of the Resolution class Polaris
submarines which they replaced. The first of class, HMS Vanguard, was
commissioned in 1993. Their home port is the Royal Naval Base at Faslane in
Scotland.

[  More ](/vanguard/)

[ ![Trafalgar](/downloaded/images/Trafalgar-top.jpg) ](/trafalgar/) Trafalgar

Another British sub to win an accolade from Tom Clancy, who said “Quite
simply, the best SSN ever built by the British…quick, quiet, and carries a
substantial punch”. As far as we know, the Trafalgar was the first sub in
service with the quiet pumpjet propulsion system. This propulsion system
proved so successful that it is allegedly now being retrofitted to many
British and American submarines.

[  More ](/trafalgar/)

[ ![upholder](/downloaded/images/upholder2-1568x1178.jpg) ](/upholder/) Upholder 

Tom Clancy called the Upholder “… probably the finest Diesel-electric
submarine in the world.” Despite this accolade, the Upholder saw service with
the British Royal Navy for just 6 1/2 years (December 1986 to June 1993). Sold
to Canada, they are now entering service as the Victoria class.

[  More ](/upholder/)

### Other Navies

[ ![Swedish Nacken](/downloaded/images/nacken-main-1568x1163.png) ](/swedish-nacken/) Swedish Nacken

Sweden has always put great emphasis on the independence of their defense
forces. So it is not surprising that they have their own submarines. They see
their roles in coastal waters. The A-14 Nacken is a fine example of a Swedish
coastal sub. It’s most visible distinguishing feature is the X tail
“ruddervator.”

[  More ](/swedish-nacken/)

[ ![French Surcouf](/downloaded/images/Surcouf-top.jpg) ](/french-surcouf/) French Surcouf

In the mid-late 1920s, the British built the “M” class range of Submarines
with very large guns 12 inch plus and an on board aircraft.The Surcouf was the
French equivalent submarine monitor and was commissioned in 1934.

[  More ](/french-surcouf/)

### Dive Systems

[ ![Dive systems](/downloaded/images/propulsion.jpg) ](/dive-systems/) Dive Systems

This system is built into a plexiglass tube. It comes completely assembled.
All you need to supply is an FM radio receiver and three servos.

[  More ](/dive-systems/)

### Control Systems

[ ![self-leveller](/downloaded/images/self-leveller-1568x1171.jpg) ](/leveller/) self-leveller

Auto-Leveller (Salcon).

[  More ](/leveller/)

### Propellers and Propulsors

[ ![Propellers & Propulsors](/downloaded/images/prop1-op.png) ](/propellers/) Propellers & Propulsors 

Hand built, one piece castings, supplied complete with prop shaft in stainless
steel.

[  More ](/propellers/)

## Customer reviews

> “Service beyond what’s expected. A vendor that stands behind his products… I
> highly recommend OTW Designs to all.”

Don Prince, Georgia USA.

> “Bob’s top shelf; no two ways about it. His customer service is excellent,
> and his products are awesome.”

Sam Reichart

> “He takes great pride in his products, and is by far one of the best vendors
> in this hobby. Looking forward to getting his Type XXIII as my next boat!”

Kurt Moller

All prices quoted exclude shipping and insurance – [contact us](/contact-us/) to discuss your requirements.

[Cookies and privacy policy](/cookies-privacy-policy/)

We try to attribute pictures to their authors where known but if you find one
of your pictures on this site without any credit then please tell us and we
will rectify the situation.

Website by Alex Connell, Copyright © 2011 – OTW Designs.

[ Proudly powered by WordPress ](https://en-gb.wordpress.org/)

