Skip to content

![](/downloaded/images/cropped-home-back.jpg)

[![OTW Designs](/downloaded/images/cropped-fish-1.png)](/)

[OTW Designs](/)

Radio controlled model submarines for the serious modeller

Menu

  * [Home](/)
  * [Blog](/blog/)
  * [Videos](/videos/)
  * [German Subs](/#GermanSubs)
  * [British Subs](/#BritishSubs)
  * [Other Navies](/#OtherNavies)
  * [Dive Systems](/#DiveSystems)
  * [About](/about-2/)
  * [Contact](/contact-us/)

## About OTW Designs

OTW Designs produces model submarines for the serious modeller. We do our very
best to be as accurate and detailed as possible. Our models are museum
quality, and designed fully in-house. The designs have been thoroughly tested
for in excess of six years, and found to satisfy the requirements of the most
exacting model makers.

Many independent opinions hold that these are _probably the best submarine
models available anywhere today._

The Type 7 model, in particular, has received accolades from America and
Germany, amongst others, and has been described as “probably the best crafted
(model submarine) kit available anywhere in the world”.

Every single model on this site has been constructed from start to finish by
Bob Dimmack and his partner Steve Warner, who have conducted all the research,
design, and development.

Although the models will make superb static display items, they are primarily
intended for use on, in, and under the water. All models can take the OTW
Designs dive system. This system – sized to suit the model in question –
_works by true submarine action_. To submerge, water is pumped into ballast
tanks, compressing the air trapped inside them. The density of the submarine
is thus increased, and this allows submergence. To surface, water is pumped
out of the ballast tanks, allowing the trapped air to expand. This reduces the
density of the submarine and causes it to surface.

Despite popular belief to the contrary, only relatively small changes in
density are required – or desired! If the density is slightly less than that
of water, the sub will surface (float); if it is slightly greater than water,
it will submerge (sink).

Other OTW Design modules are recommended to maximize the performance of your
model. The trim system (auto leveler) controls the rear dive planes to keep it
level underwater – unless of course the operator wants to dive or to surface
the model. And the emergency blow system can surface your model in the
unlikely event of a problem.

With the electronic drive package, battery status is continually monitored, so
that in normal use your model will surface with enough power left to return to
you before the battery becomes exhausted.

![Type7 - UBoat](/downloaded/images/new-type-7.jpg) Type 7 UBoat 

All prices quoted exclude shipping and insurance – [contact us](/contact-us/) to discuss your requirements.

[Cookies and privacy policy](/cookies-privacy-policy/)

We try to attribute pictures to their authors where known but if you find one
of your pictures on this site without any credit then please tell us and we
will rectify the situation.

Website by Alex Connell, Copyright © 2011 – OTW Designs.

[ Proudly powered by WordPress ](https://en-gb.wordpress.org/)

