Skip to content

![](/downloaded/images/cropped-home-back.jpg)

[![OTW Designs](/downloaded/images/cropped-fish-1.png)](/)

[OTW Designs](/)

Radio controlled model submarines for the serious modeller

Menu

  * [Home](/)
  * [Blog](/blog/)
  * [Videos](/videos/)
  * [German Subs](/#GermanSubs)
  * [British Subs](/#BritishSubs)
  * [Other Navies](/#OtherNavies)
  * [Dive Systems](/#DiveSystems)
  * [About](/about-2/)
  * [Contact](/contact-us/)

# Author: admin

Posted on [April 26, 2021July 11, 2022](/new-launch/introducing-hms-artful/)

## [Introducing, ‘HMS Artful’](/new-launch/introducing-hms-artful/)

Our New kit HMS Artful ( Astute class ) submarine 1/72nd scale, is now
available for order. The kit contains the hull, deck and tower in glass fibre
and is 54 inches long with a 6 inch beam.

Front and Rear dive planes with stainless steel pivot rods fitted, top &
bottom rudders stainless steel pivot rods fitted Sonar array, set of Brass
bearings, arrangement drawing cloth flag,

We can also supply the pump jet and a dive system. All pictures supplied by
Gareth Hanak who is building first one now. There will be a set of accessories
available as well (bollards capstans etc).

The Astute class was introduced to replace the ageing Trafalgar hunter killer
fleet and was an upgraded version of the latter.

Launched in 2007, 97 meters long with a 11.3 meter long beam. The Astute has a
bit of an unlucky history. It ran aground off Skye in October 2010 and later
in April 2011 an officer was shot dead by one of his crew. There have been
other issues not officially reported. We have decided to call our Astute class
‘Artful’ purely because the Astute had such a run of bad luck.

[![](/downloaded/images/Artful-c_1-150x150.jpg)](/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/Artful-c_1.jpg)

Picture courtesy of Gareth Hanak.

[![](/downloaded/images/Aetful-b-150x150.jpg)](/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/Aetful-b.jpg)

Picture courtesy of Gareth Hanak.

[![](/downloaded/images/Artful-a-150x150.jpg)](/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/Artful-a.jpg)

Picture courtesy of Gareth Hanak.

Posted on [January 28, 2021](/uncategorized/new-and-improved-pump-controller/)

## [New and Improved Pump Controller](/uncategorized/new-and-improved-pump-controller/)

We have retired our standard solid state pump controller and introduced a
whole new and more flexible model using the Arduino programmable micro-
controller. This makes installation and troubleshooting a lot easier for the
model builder. There are 4 test lights which indicate the status of water
level probes, ballast pump operation, power levels and receiver signal loss.

The unit is fully waterproof and is a direct replacement for earlier ballast
tank control units. There’s no need to change the wiring.

The pump output is short circuit proof (in the event of a stalled motor, for
instance) and the input receiver is optically isolated.

The new unit is much more user-friendlier as well as being as accurate and
reliable as before.

Posted on [December 30, 2020December 29, 2020](/uncategorized/martin-pryors-build-of-the-otw-designs-nacken/)

## [Martin Pryor’s build of the OTW Designs Nacken](/uncategorized/martin-pryors-build-of-the-otw-designs-nacken/)

More footage from Martin, this time showing his build of our Nacken kit being
piloted by himself at the Russel Gardens in Dover. Many thanks to Martin for
his permission to share this footage with you all.

Posted on [December 29, 2020](/uncategorized/new-video-of-the-otw-type-2b-german-u-boat-kit/)

## [New video of the OTW type 2B German U Boat Kit](/uncategorized/new-video-of-the-otw-type-2b-german-u-boat-kit/)

Martin Prior sent us some excellent footage of his build of the OTW type IIb
German U Boat Kit, which he is piloting in the video below.

Many thanks to Martin for his fantastic footage and allowing us to share it
with you.

## Posts navigation

[ Previous page](/author/admin/) [Page 1](/author/admin/) Page 2 [Page 3](/author/admin/page/3/) [Next page ](/author/admin/page/3/)

Search for: Search

## Recent Posts

  * [HMS Artful: a customer-detailed build.](/uncategorized/hms-artful-a-customer-detailed-build/)
  * [Very happy customer buys 3 new Astute kits](/uncategorized/very-happy-customer-buys-3-new-astute-kits/)
  * [Astute ( Artful ) 1/72nd model](/uncategorized/astute-artful-1-72nd-model/)
  * [Unboxing the Nacken](/uncategorized/unboxing-the-nacken/)
  * [Introducing, ‘HMS Artful’](/new-launch/introducing-hms-artful/)

## Recent Comments

## Archives

  * [July 2022](/2022/07/)
  * [June 2021](/2021/06/)
  * [May 2021](/2021/05/)
  * [April 2021](/2021/04/)
  * [January 2021](/2021/01/)
  * [December 2020](/2020/12/)
  * [November 2020](/2020/11/)
  * [July 2020](/2020/07/)
  * [May 2020](/2020/05/)

## Categories

  * [new launch](/category/new-launch/)
  * [Showcase](/category/showcase/)
  * [Uncategorized](/category/uncategorized/)

## Meta

  * [Log in](/wp-login.php)
  * [Entries feed](/feed/)
  * [Comments feed](/comments/feed/)
  * [WordPress.org](https://en-gb.wordpress.org/)

[ Proudly powered by WordPress ](https://en-gb.wordpress.org/)

