Skip to content

![](/downloaded/images/cropped-home-back.jpg)

[![OTW Designs](/downloaded/images/cropped-fish-1.png)](/)

[OTW Designs](/)

Radio controlled model submarines for the serious modeller

Menu

  * [Home](/)
  * [Blog](/blog/)
  * [Videos](/videos/)
  * [German Subs](/#GermanSubs)
  * [British Subs](/#BritishSubs)
  * [Other Navies](/#OtherNavies)
  * [Dive Systems](/#DiveSystems)
  * [About](/about-2/)
  * [Contact](/contact-us/)

# O Class

![O Class](/downloaded/images/OClass1.jpg)

## Statistics

  * Scale: 1/48th
  * Length: Hull 74″ (1880mm)
  * Beam: Across saddle tanks: 6 3/4″ (160mm)

## £685

All prices exclude shipping and insurance. Contact us for a quote.

Optional cast “A” frame, stainless steel prop shafts, and 2 scale cast brass
alloy propellers – please contact us for a quote.

[  Order ](/contact-us/)

### About this model

The Oberon or ‘O Class’ model shows the distinctive Type 2051 sonar dome,
which gives the Oberon class its distinctive outline. Another feature is the
number of ‘masts’ – no less than seven – which includes snort intake and
exhaust, communications (2), radar, and periscopes (2). Powered by two
Admiralty Standard Range 1 diesel engines driving electric motors, they proved
to be reliable and well respected.

They were some 295ft long, 26.5 ft beam and had a surfaced draught of 18ft. At
2400 tons submerged displacement they had high underwater speed (17 Knots) and
could maintain this for long periods using the snort facility, which was also
fitted.

They were armed with six bow 21 inch torpedo tubes and two of the same size in
the stern. In Ocelot, the stern tubes were plated over during a refit, so that
a towed array sonar could be installed. This is one of several sonars carried,
the most obvious being the one housed in the bow fairing.

The large distinctive sail (fin) carries seven masts for communication, radar,
and, of course the periscopes. A bridge/conning position is also situated
there. For the first time in submarine construction, many of the casing panels
were made in fiberglass laminate, to reduce the weight.

The kit includes the hull, deck, and sail made from GRP moldings, and the
vanes, rudder, and skeg which are polyurethane castings. Also included is a
set of assembly drawings

## Gallery

All images are provided by our customers, unless stated otherwise. We try to
credit the author, please let us know if we haven’t. Click on the thumbnails
to see a full-sized image.

[![O Class](/downloaded/images/OClass1.jpg)](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/OClass1.jpg)

The O Class. Photos courtesy of Mark Strickland.

[![](/downloaded/images/masts.jpg)](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/masts.jpg)

Mast detail.

[![](/downloaded/images/O-clas-in-AUS-6.jpg)](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/O-clas-in-AUS-6.jpg)

Live action shot.

[  Order ](/contact-us/)

All prices quoted exclude shipping and insurance – [contact us](/contact-us/) to discuss your requirements.

[Cookies and privacy policy](/cookies-privacy-policy/)

We try to attribute pictures to their authors where known but if you find one
of your pictures on this site without any credit then please tell us and we
will rectify the situation.

Website by Alex Connell, Copyright © 2011 – OTW Designs.

[ Proudly powered by WordPress ](https://en-gb.wordpress.org/)

