Skip to content

![](/downloaded/images/cropped-home-back.jpg)

[![OTW Designs](/downloaded/images/cropped-fish-1.png)](/)

[OTW Designs](/)

Radio controlled model submarines for the serious modeller

Menu

  * [Home](/)
  * [Blog](/blog/)
  * [Videos](/videos/)
  * [German Subs](/#GermanSubs)
  * [British Subs](/#BritishSubs)
  * [Other Navies](/#OtherNavies)
  * [Dive Systems](/#DiveSystems)
  * [About](/about-2/)
  * [Contact](/contact-us/)

# Type7 - UBoat

[ ![Type7 - UBoat](/downloaded/images/new-type-7.jpg) ](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/new-type-7.jpg)

## Statistics

  * Scale: 1/32
  * Length: 82.25″ (2090mm)
  * Beam: (across saddle tanks) 7.625″ (194mm)

## £895

All prices exclude shipping and insurance. Contact us for a quote.

This kit includes a fully detailed brass conning tower that requires soldering
to assemble.

[ Order ](/contact-us/)

## About this model

We have produced a highly detailed 1/32nd scale replica of the type VIIc from
which you can construct, to exhibition standard, a model for static or radio
control use.

### The main hull

The main hull is molded in one piece in best quality G.R.P. resin. This
material also protects the detail, which consists of 310 detail scale plates,
and 34,000 rivet heads (which simulate the frame spacing).

As on the full sized vessel, the upper outer casing has the appearance of
overlapping the lower pressure hull, accentuating the type of construction,
which made these boats so successful in their day.

Relevant flooding vents and slots are also indicated to ease the task of
building, along with other detailed information on the plan supplied.

### Running Hardware

Superbly crafted and engineered to scale. The Rear Frame unit that
incorporates the shaft outer bearings and rear plane guards is cast in solid
brass alloy, then pre-aligned for a perfect location onto the hull.

The Forward dive plane guards are cast in brass alloy with location spigots
for easy assembly to the hull.

The Shafts are 4mm dia. stainless steel. Props are cast in one piece in brass
alloy, made to replicate the full size vessel. These are 49mm dia. L&R handed.

The Foreplanes / Sternplanes / twin Rudders are also supplied and molded in a
tough polyurethane resin complete with actuation rods made from stainless
steel.

### The Deck and Conning Tower

The basic kit includes everything you need to construct a model Type VII
submarine; made from .020″ photo-etched brass with all the 1351 venting slots
cut, every detail is included, saving hundreds of hours of work.

Also on the 18″ x 12″ brass plates are the Tower sides, which need to be
soldered and assembled to the deck. We even supply the tower’s famous square-
holed floor, and the winter garden circle base plates.

A drawing of the assembled tower and deck is shown on the plan, with a parts
list and numbered locations of the components. Below you can see a picture of
the assembled standard tower.

### Optional extra – GRP resin tower **£85.00**

The entire submarine can be constructed from the basic kit (at the price shown
above) but we also supply a GRP resin shell for the conning tower, for
modellers who want to avoid soldering the brass plates to construct the tower.

[ ![GRP resin tower](/downloaded/images/grpv11-tower.jpg) ](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/grpv11-tower.jpg) Thumbnail shot of the resin tower. Click to see the full-sized image. 

### The Twin Wintergarden Variant **£325(*)**

This is an upgrade for our standard kit to convert it to a 4 gun variant (the
Twin Wintergarden Variant).

_*or less, depending on requirements, please enquire._

[ ![Twin Wintergarden Variant](/downloaded/images/Twin-tower-7a-1568x1018.jpeg) ](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Twin-tower-7a.jpeg) Thumbnail shot of the Twin Wintergarden Variant - photo courtesy of Andrew Gibson. Click to see the full-sized image. 

## Gallery

All images are provided by our customers, unless stated otherwise.

Click on the thumbnails below to see a full-sized image. Press back on your
browser to return to this screen.

[![Type7 - UBoat](/downloaded/images/new-type-7-150x150.jpg)](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/new-type-7.jpg)

Type 7 UBoat

[![Brass kit](/downloaded/images/brass2-150x150.png)](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/brass2.png)

(1/2) Kit includes our Photo Etch Brass deck and Tower parts,no more cutting
out deck slots in a sheet of fibreglass for the deck.We have done all that for
you plus we include the parts to make a complete brass tower.

[![brass kit.](/downloaded/images/brass1-150x150.png)](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/brass1.png)

(2/2) Brass plates included in the kit.

[![Assembled tower](/downloaded/images/Brass-tower-2-150x150.png)](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Brass-tower-2.png)

Assembled tower pictures courtesy of Fredrico Perez from Puerto Rico. (1/2)

[![Assembled tower 2](/downloaded/images/Brass-tower-3-150x150.png)](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Brass-tower-3.png)

Assembled tower pictures courtesy of Fredrico Perez from Puerto Rico. (2/2).

[![Martin's Tower](/downloaded/images/Brass-tower-Martin2-150x150.jpg)](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Brass-tower-Martin2.jpg)

Assembled tower shot, courtesy of Martin Prior.

[ Order ](/contact-us/)

All prices quoted exclude shipping and insurance – [contact us](/contact-us/) to discuss your requirements.

[Cookies and privacy policy](/cookies-privacy-policy/)

We try to attribute pictures to their authors where known but if you find one
of your pictures on this site without any credit then please tell us and we
will rectify the situation.

Website by Alex Connell, Copyright © 2011 – OTW Designs.

[ Proudly powered by WordPress ](https://en-gb.wordpress.org/)

