Skip to content

![](/downloaded/images/cropped-home-back.jpg)

[![OTW Designs](/downloaded/images/cropped-fish-1.png)](/)

[OTW Designs](/)

Radio controlled model submarines for the serious modeller

Menu

  * [Home](/)
  * [Blog](/blog/)
  * [Videos](/videos/)
  * [German Subs](/#GermanSubs)
  * [British Subs](/#BritishSubs)
  * [Other Navies](/#OtherNavies)
  * [Dive Systems](/#DiveSystems)
  * [About](/about-2/)
  * [Contact](/contact-us/)

# Type IIB U-Boat

![German type 2b Uboat built by Martin Pryor](/downloaded/images/IMG_0370-2048x1536.jpg)

## Statistics

  * Scale: 1/32nd
  * Length: 53″
  * Beam: 5″

## £685

All prices exclude shipping and insurance. Contact us for a quote.

[  Order ](/contact-us/)

### About this model

The type II U-boat was a series of small coastal U-boats that has its origin
in a Clandestine Dutch engineering & design company set up by the Germans
after World War one. This allowed them to circumnavigate the restrictions of
the Versailles Treaty.

The prototype was the Vesikko built for the Finnish government which is now a
museum ship.

When Hitler tore up the imposed restrictions Germany was then set to build
their own U-boats with all the development and testing done. This resulted in
the Type IIA through IID series of U-boats.

As a result of about 10 years of constant importuning by my good friend and
one of our first clients Jeff LaRue with the added incentive for us of a
finished photo etched deck and tower floor we started on the masters about 18
months ago. The result is our new type IIB kit.

The OTW model is a scale representation of the Type IIB series ( U-7 through
U-24 and U-120 – U-121 ) in 1/32nd scale. The model is 53 inches long with a 5
inch beam.

The kit includes detailed hull, casement and tower in glass fibre, photo-etch
brass main and tower decks, net cutters compass housing fittings and
hydrophones. Also included are resin cast front and rear dive planes, rudder
and stern dive plane / skeg support.

The dive planes come with pivot rods installed, The rudder is supplied with
the stainless rod. Bearings for the dive planes and rudder are all included.

The front dive plane guards and the rear bushed propeller shaft support frame
are all cast in brass alloy as are the LH / RH propellers. Additional parts
included are:

  * Anchor
  * RDF loop aerial
  * Tower wheel hatch
  * 2 life preservers
  * Periscope
  * 20 mm deck gun
  * Propeller shafts and bearings
  * L/H and R/H brass alloy propellers
  * Open closed fair leads
  * Tower hand rail fittings
  * Cloth Kriegsmarine flag

A set of stainless steel templates to help cutting the hull and casing slots
is also included. A full sized arrangement drawing is provided to aid the
modeller in the construction.

There will be an illustrated construction article available shortly.

We will also have a bespoke dive system for this model if required.

## Gallery

All images are provided by our customers, unless stated otherwise. We try to
credit the author, please let us know if we haven’t. Click on the thumbnails
to see a full-sized image.

[![Type IIB German U-Boat](/downloaded/images/1type2b-main-1568x952.jpg)](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/1type2b-main.jpg)

Three Quarter front view of the hull,deck and tower.

[![](/downloaded/images/2type2kitbits-1568x1171.jpg)](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/2type2kitbits.jpg)

Side view of hull, deck, and tower with some of the fittings.

[![](/downloaded/images/3type2basictower-1568x1171.jpg)](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/3type2basictower.jpg)

Top view of the tower and deck.

[![](/downloaded/images/4type2tower-whiteout.jpg)](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/4type2tower-whiteout.jpg)

Part built tower courtesy of Ken Griffin, USA.

[![](/downloaded/images/6Type2Parts.jpg)](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/6Type2Parts.jpg)

Some of the parts included in the kit.

[![](/downloaded/images/7DiveForTypw2.jpg)](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/7DiveForTypw2.jpg)

Special twin motor dive propulsion system unit available for the type II
submarine.

[![](/downloaded/images/8type2-deck-1568x334.jpg)](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/8type2-deck.jpg)

Brass deck fitted to hull courtesy Ken Griffin, USA.

[![](/downloaded/images/9type2bgun.jpg)](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/9type2bgun.jpg)

20 mm deck gun included in the kit,comes fully assembled.

[![](/downloaded/images/Ken-with-Visikko-2-1568x1176.jpg)](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Ken-with-Visikko-2.jpg)

Ken Griffin holding the Vesikko to illustrate size,will fit on the back seat
of a car easily.

[![](/downloaded/images/Finished-starboard-side-2-1568x671.jpg)](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Finished-starboard-side-2.jpg)

Starboard side type 2 in the form of the Vesikko, courtesy of Ken Griffin.

[![German type 2b Uboat built by Martin Pryor](/downloaded/images/IMG_0370-2048x1536.jpg)](/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/IMG_0370-scaled.jpg)

German type 2b Uboat built by Martin Pryor

[![German type 2b Uboat built by Martin Pryor](/downloaded/images/IMG_0368-2048x1536.jpg)](/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/IMG_0368-scaled.jpg)

German type 2b Uboat built by Martin Pryor

[  Order ](/contact-us/)

All prices quoted exclude shipping and insurance – [contact us](/contact-us/) to discuss your requirements.

[Cookies and privacy policy](/cookies-privacy-policy/)

We try to attribute pictures to their authors where known but if you find one
of your pictures on this site without any credit then please tell us and we
will rectify the situation.

Website by Alex Connell, Copyright © 2011 – OTW Designs.

[ Proudly powered by WordPress ](https://en-gb.wordpress.org/)

